this guy has lied to an audience over
and over and over art for art's sake is
like Jen for Jin's sake vodka for vodkas
sake etc I've recently addressed the
fact that part of my role here on
YouTube is criticism and I'm not ashamed
of that I don't apologize for that I
think that in the same way that we have
to recognize the role the critic in art
the role of the critic and cinema is
important the role of the critic in
politics can be much more important and
this whole controversy with durianrider
and freely in the righto for diet it
came into my life in a very peculiar way
and I'd like to think that chapter of my
life is now ending and we're moving on
to other forms of critique other forms
of engagement with what's going on in
veganism ecology animal rights and
related politics maybe even unrelated
politics maybe we can get back to
talking about the politics of Canada
politics of Donald Trump politics of
Asia who knows when we get back to some
of those topics in my channel which if
you go through the past videos we have
more than 500 videos here I have
actually touched on all that stuff at
some point there's a lot more to this
channel than Jerian writer and in fact
it's a lot more this challenges veganism
too with all Emmet said look there's a
new two hour long documentary I'm going
to hit you with a six minute clip of it
right now
you can click on the link below of this
video to see it over on Noor vegans
channel if you like these six minutes
and you think it's telling you something
here obviously you haven't already heard
before for those of you who fold the
story really closely one year ago down
to including the present day it's not
going to tell you a lot that you haven't
heard before but it does put together in
one two hours cinematic experience all
this messy nonsense from this
controversy that went from threats of a
fistfight in the street to drama in the
courtroom in Thailand Kaneko I had lied
to in the audience over and over and
over he's refused to give any legit
certification of his criminal history
claiming that I needed to provide legal
proof that I was not a wife-beater
although amusingly by complete
coincidence I actually did provide him
with a current
criminal record check from Canada that
relate to the job I had lined up in
China I needed criminal background check
to get that job so I did actually have a
fresh criminal record check it's a lot
more than the story no there's not a lot
more to the story
why is AI cumin why can't you put your
effort into helping an animals versus
putting vegan against vegan or praying
or drama lives etc what can you do that
why not make something bigger than just
bashing during on a friendly why be so
jealous or full of hate maybe you Irish
you may be getting paid by meeting dairy
a lot of you asked me to do a thing I
did comment on it comment about it on
Facebook during writer parley and his
accusations and a lot of people calling
this drama and and I get it to some
degree but I don't it's not this isn't
like someone broke up with someone
let's gossip about it like this is
actually something really serious and
something that I think has serious
implications and brings up some serious
questions and ethical issues so after
apologising he went straight back to
doing the exact same thing he was
apologizing for I do feel like the one
comment where you had called aizawa's
art a pedophile I do feel like if you
hadn't made that statement this whole
summer could have looked a lot different
I really do believe that it was dude
that gave us a lot of publicity and
eventually expose what a fraud this
[ __ ] is what a sleazebag what a
sexual predator is do you really
genuinely believe that how did the say
in my opinion it's just like woman's
manipulating Fox I had so many fights
I've been in prison before it's no big
deal to me if you try to use prison as a
hey I went to prison I was like is he
using that I'm kind of like to his
followers to the Disney writers they
like yeah our leaders been in prison Oh
where's your leader beam going to prison
doesn't mean you're tough spending time
in prison doesn't make you tough
I heard something interesting Joey
Katherine who used to be hardest friend
revealed a little something about these
prison stories
[Music]
it's funny they say those two he's not
scared of going back to prison I think
he did one day in juvie for um for doing
a graffiti taggers that me did one day
and juvie
it's pretty funny let's get him come
back to prison ha ha ha oh I've been to
jail I'm not scared of going back why
say that dude you've never done jail
you're a known rat and it's you're an
actual if informant for the police you
don't you're not a prison just just be
here you are men be who you are
I just are not convinced there's a
sexual predator and that he was trying
to [ __ ] Julian Bohr I'm not convinced of
that but I mean is that what you're
saying is that really what you're
telling us that's that's my hunch that's
my hunch I would rock being a tick being
the teacher having an event attracts a
lot of young women I would rather earn
the side of caution then something to
happen to so Hey look during all you had
that happened I'll do what I have to do
to protect and sing this whole
controversy is like an IQ test for the
Beatles watching it
whatever one should pick up on is the
miscellaneous nature of these
accusations if the problem was that I
was a pedophile and I say back to zero
matter okay let's meet at the police
station because he originally said he
had criminal charges against me but he
wanted me to be arrested and I said okay
meet you at the police station why did
he back down from that he backed down
for it because it was a lie there never
was a legitimate reason to think I was
trying to get with teenage girls there
never was a legitimate reason to think I
was a pedophile and there also has never
been a legitimate reason to think I was
a wife-beater durianrider has defamed me
threatened me and invited others to
assault me originally he was saying he
wanted other people to beat me up so
they could abduct me and take me to the
police station when I respond to that by
offering to meet him at the police
station is it look if you've actually
are criminal charges to me let's go to
the police station and let's see the
evidence and let's go to court fine
arrest me I'm not avoiding arrest and of
course he suddenly lost interest in
going to police what have you
and you know he dropped the pretense of
wanting to beat me up in order to take
me to the police to face justice or to
be arrested any then instead switch to
just saying he wants to beat me up
Zig beat me up I would [ __ ] him down
Eliza man I would [ __ ] hunt him down
for a friendly mood tie straight flat
match I would [ __ ] hunt him down this
is what it comes to threatening to beat
someone up threatening to kill someone
defaming someone as a sex predator you
know it's so low and again it's not
really about me or my feelings my ego
this is so shameful for veganism Basel
desk I would [ __ ] faut Lorraine and
I'm going to crack both your [ __ ]
legs in health care the last reply I got
from durianrider before I blocked him on
Facebook which ended the discussion the
last message I got from head was so sue
me then and he follows it up with a
curse word I don't want to take during
right into court but I will who's been
drawing the line and saying no here's
the line here's what's over but I have
been that's why they hate me so much
well they told me prison let's write up
every [ __ ] day and go and find
him and she'll know you found who toss
Fitness no doubt about it
durianrider has been threatening me with
violence legally speaking he's now
guilty of defamation uttering threats
are ye uttering coats amounts and
inciting violence and all of those are
real crimes so I continued to lie about
the situation and pretended that he had
only called iyslah creep in a Facebook
comment you cannot go to prison to call
someone a creepy [ __ ] on
Facebook who contacts 16 year old girls
randomly you think it's a remission for
a Facebook comment in what magical Court
can you prosecute someone for something
I wrote in facebook when which magical
Court is this at me countess I'm
imprisoned for a Facebook comment you
can no I have to admit I did not enjoy
spending two hours of my life watching
that documentary I got to be under two
hours I thought I wish I had spent that
time doing push-ups I wish I had spent
doing something else but I'm an unusual
situation because I had to follow that
whole drama as it unfolded I was
involved and I was in court and
everything
so I already knew most of what it was
telling me and also I'm in a position
where I have to kind of wince because I
often know exactly what's being added
today what's being excluded I don't mean
that as an unfair criticism for the
filmmaker but of course that's the
position I'm in sometimes the truth of
what happened is even crazier then you
know what you see camera would suggest
for instance he he goes into some detail
the filmmaker and showing how Gary and
Ryder kept denying that the court case
was real and ongoing even though it was
ridiculous to do so you know there's
plenty of evidence around that the court
case was real but he doesn't show you
that durianrider kept doing that even
after I had posted videotape of myself
going to the courtroom in person and me
standing in the hallway in front of the
courtroom with with the legal documents
during writer made statements of the
internet claiming that I had hired
actors to pretend to be my lawyers and
to walk into the courtroom with me he
was still claiming it was fake you know
even at that point he was still claim it
was fake even after we spoke face to
face well sorry via via the internet
sort of a vile camera chat what if you
want to say red camera and sound and I
was feeding him directly saying during
writer you need to hire a lawyer the
court case is real I told him to date on
the next court date and all he had to do
was go and check he could have had legal
representation there he could have been
defended so even in that kind of thing I
mean the filmmaker is doing his best to
give you a concise overview of what
happened the reality is diretor I did
writers behavior was even more
unreasonable it's even more crazy that
is you know being suggested by this this
summary so look a lot of people have
asked why did I go to Chiangmai in the
first place I think they asked that
because they think there's going to be
some kind of interesting secret revealed
by the answer and there really isn't I
almost never get asked I think nobody's
ever asked why did I decide to criticize
your mother and Phil in the first place
the answer that is I think a little bit
more interesting and you know now I have
to look back the amount of time and
energy
into debunking durianrider as opposed to
other possibly more meaningful content
on my channel uh if you go back I mean
they're not well-made compared to my
current videos I have one videos I think
quite well made that's called the wonder
that was freely looking back at me
really an analytical way why did people
become true believers in this why do
people get interested why was the
support for this you know very eccentric
movement within being as long as it's so
intense over a short period of time but
you know I think for me the turning
point was just that I didn't want to
deal with diet on my channel at all and
I went through the videos by two
youtubers one of whom is now using the
name the microbe or diet and the other
whom the other whom is unnatural vegan I
thought I was making one video and I
thought I could just allude to the fact
that durian riders diet advice had been
debunked
I guess throw in some short clips from
these two other channels and then move
on but I wouldn't have to discuss that
but what I was going through their
videos I found they really didn't do
that they really did not say what needed
to be said and it was kind of in my case
it was just a vague member I thought
unnatural begin to dealt with that
really thoroughly but then when I went
back I was just looking for clips to
find exactly what she said and put it
together it wasn't there so you know it
kind of fell on me to say okay I've got
to put together a concise summary that
really answers the claims these people
are making and it outlines what the
problem is with their diet advice so
that was a turning point both for my
channel and for them because the sort of
topic I wouldn't want to talk about but
it was something nobody else was talking
about so for example vegan gains would
have been natural for that but at the
time vegan gains was a kind of a lie of
durianrider and freelee's he didn't
criticize their health and diet advice
or anything else they did I remember
being at the time he just said that his
channel wasn't set up to criticise other
vegans you know he only wanted to
criticise meat eaters and meat based
diets so we didn't want to criticize you
know misleading claims made by righto
for a particularly eccentric vegan diet
so that as I say kind of ended up on my
shoulders the first direct response I
had from durianrider the first time he
made a video
us to my channel was not answering the
health and diet advice I gave but it was
about Crohn's disease so cause disease
is a very very serious illness
I mean durianrider whether or not he
ever had close disease whether or not
there was any substance to his claim to
having cured crohn's disease he made a
bunch of questionable claims that it
seemed nobody else's questioning against
since then I have asked vegan gains
directly I said why didn't you ever deal
with this and he just said he didn't
even know about it he'd never heard of
him he wasn't aware that during Ryder
made these kinds of you know pseudo
scientific genuinely misleading and
immoral claims he's claiming to have
cured an incurable disease and as I did
more reading about that and had people
writing in tune with advice I found that
really if you just pay attention what
during writer said closely if you just
looked at the inconsistencies in his
claims it really seems like he never had
the disease in the first place but
during writer you know responds out the
video the original title was something
like I ten thousand percent cured
Crohn's disease something like this I
don't know if you later change that to a
hundred percent he actually misspelled
Crohn's disease in the title and went
back and made some changes but he he
made a video absolutely doubling down in
his claim and from that point I knew I
already knew that they were watching the
videos on my channel
both freelee and durianrider and they
were responding to them both directly
and indirectly so at that point he had
one video directly addressed to my
channel dealing with you know the
questions I'd raised about Crohn's
disease and thus also more broadly about
the legitimacy of his his diet and
health and exercise advice topics I
never thought about what shell would
really deal with it's just not my forte
at some of my channel supposed to be
about and a lot of those videos on my
channel got significant numbers of
viewers more than thirty thousand
viewers so that's that really is how one
thing led to another with me and dairy
minor when I arrived in Chiang Mai I met
up with a girl named Lea first named Lea
she's appeared on this channel Lea had
just seen freely and Harley at the
grocery store is go to the same grocery
store she'd bumped into them there in
shame I and Frehley was furious
absolutely furious course Darian Reiner
was his usual self
you know she was just furious at lea
because leah had dared to question the
diet so for those people in terms of
their view of the world there was no
legitimate role for criticism you know
there was no legitimate for questioning
their whole mentality and the way they
ran their the way they ran their club
let's put it that way was that either
you were for them or against them either
you were a supporter or you were the
enemy and the truth is they didn't treat
their supporters very well and they
didn't treat their enemies very well
either
they didn't even treat their own
supporters with dignity and they treated
their enemies horribly I'll tell you
something else though I have not
received one email of apology not one
from anybody admitting that they were
wrong and that they took the wrong side
or did the wrong thing all of us within
veganism we think of veganism as this
morally positive cause and therefore we
like to imagine all the people within
veganism as being morally and
intellectually virtuous and they're not
I mean you can just look at the numbers
involved my audience is small I'm
totally happy with that the type of
content I create is only appealing to an
interesting to a small audience really
focused on vegan activism organization
political dissent you know future of the
planet
ecology ethics etc I know they're only a
few thousand people interested in that
type of content the Internet I'm totally
happy with the size of audiences of God
but then you look at the tens of
thousands the tens of thousands who were
so eager to jump on durian writers
bandwagon so eager to jump on vegan
cheetahs bandwagon and now those wagons
have stopped rolling and where are those
apologies guys you know there should be
one I should have one email that I can
show here I should have can should have
ten emails for those tens of thousands
of people because it's more than ten
thousand people and it's more than ten
thousand vegans it's more than ten
thousand of us
who were dead wrong on this it's go and
they weren't quiet either they weren't
no see
they were just silently sitting back and
judging me these were people who really
want another way to condemn me as a liar
and a fraud and all these terrible
things when I was telling the truth at
every stage and I'm still telling the
truth now but you know I've made this
comparison before if you look at some of
the YouTube channels that are devoted to
comic books mainstream a DC Comics
Marvel Comics superhero comics they
really do have more of a community than
veganism does in 2017 really I'm not
being sarcastic
I'm not take a look they have
conferences their meetings they buy
airplane tickets they do fundraisers
they have donations they auctioneers the
money to have a convention and then
people fly there I think you can look at
the game of Thrones fan community but
yeah sure the comic books are a really
good example they have more elements of
a real community than vegans ever have
had and safety ever will and you can
look through the comments below their
channels go through their controversy
sometimes those guys do have their own
scandals but not like this and I don't
see this level of you know mean-spirited
vitriolic you know ultimately just
malicious infighting within those other
digital Demi moms you know and I think
it really is worthwhile to look across
the table look at what the guys in comic
books are going on and ask yourself why
can't we have that if and where it's
going to start wearing more of a more of
a constructive attitude towards making
the most out of what we got here in
veganism in terms of human resources can
it start with this can it start with you
watching this video right now can it
start with something you can do today or
tomorrow or sitting down with your
calendar and looking ahead to the rest
of this year
I don't know what the future big ism is
but the future of veganism is not
durianrider it's not vegan cheetah it's
not a community built on slander and
defamation and get skinny quick $35
ebooks it's just not